---
title: Python 2.5 Beta
author: chmouel
date: 2006-04-09T06:07:50+00:00
url: /2006/04/09/python-25-beta/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 252039354
tags:
  - Python

---
<span lang="EN-AU">I have been looking at the </span>_[<span lang="EN-AU">What's new</span>][1]_ __<span lang="EN-AU">of Python 2.5. There is some cool features inside it :</span>

**[<span lang="EN-AU">Conditional Expressions:</span>][2]**<span lang="EN-AU" />

<span lang="EN-AU">This stuff basically allow to do standard C idiom (that we found in every kind of derivative language) like</span>

<span lang="EN-AU">a = condition ? "true" : "false"</span>

<span lang="EN-AU">the weird part is that Guido Van-Rossum implemented this syntax :</span>

<span lang="EN-AU">x = true_value if condition else false_value</span>

<span lang="EN-AU">which we will have to get use to. I am not a big fan of this feature since it makes the code more obscure. But still could be useful for little scripts or quick hack.</span>

[**Unified try/except/finally**][3]:

<span lang="EN-AU">I like the inclusion of else in a try finally. I use to put everything in the try which was not really very good looked when now i can really try or else something. Make me easier to port some Java code to python as well and respect the logic of the java program.</span>

[**<span lang="EN-AU">The with statement:</span>**][4]<span lang="EN-AU" />

<span lang="EN-AU">This one is weird for me it's basically a closure of variable allowing to do stuff like this :</span>

<span lang="EN-AU">with expression as variable:</span>

<span lang="EN-AU">stuff</span>

<span lang="EN-AU">#expression not here anymore</span>

<span lang="EN-AU">I am still wondering how and why to use that. But i guess it will come us when i will do some coding in Python 2.5.</span>

**Other interesting stuff:**

Sqlite3 library default inclusion. The cool thing about this for Linux vendors is that it does not require the libsqlite3 library but link dynamically via the ctypes module (i guess).

Ctypes allow you to call C dynamic functions via python.

A fast new XML parser.

Sounds like fun for the new python and there is a lot of other bugfixes so go read it.

 [1]: http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/whatsnew25.html "Whats new in Python 2.5"
 [2]: http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/node2.html
 [3]: http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/node7.html
 [4]: http://docs.python.org/dev/whatsnew/node9.html